The net's always a lot lighter and a lot easier
to pull in when you've got a fish. It's very
very hard and heavy when there's nothing.
It's not really hard but sometimes it's..
depends on the size of the tide. When the
sun's shining things always seem a lot nicer.
Yes, we've been salmon fishing together y'know
32 or 3 years and she still pulls the net
in now like she did when she was only 60.
You must be joking. It's a 2 mile walk, a
mile out roughly and a mile back. Don't forget
we're old, old age pensioners. What better
type changing room could have than this. I
can get the old bird dressed here. This is
why it's a family job pulling her trousers
up. I'm 77 and everybody says why we're so
fit we eat so much fish. I'm 84 nearly now,
and a lot of people 84 thinking about not
pulling nets and rowing boats. We've got Conacre,
Pill's Mouth, Deadman. The salmon will be
holding in the deep water. You know maybe
another week or two. So I'm hoping now for
the fish to just go in through, find they
can't get out and they'll come back down through
on this draft so that's why I choose this
today I may be unlucky I may have done better
up there. The net is secured on the beach
with a crew member, which in my case is Sheila.
"OK doll, pull un in." Which if she's doing
her job properly "Right, steady dear not too
quick." Which she does most of the time. I
was fishing Conacre many years ago and the
wind was blowing me towards the rocks, I was
stuck fast and the minute you're stuck fast
the bottom of the boat goes down and the water
comes over and sinks you you see. I never
had a knife to cut the net adrift so all I
had to do was just get an armful of net and
throw it all out in a great heap and make
a bolt to the shore as fast as I could and
leave it there til the tide come in. The funny
thing about it people would have said "Cor,
Steve Taylor, got drowned shooting Conacre
when he's done it a million times what ever
was he thinking about." but it was so
simple. Just a split second and the wind...
gone. The net itself is a seine net. The idea
is to form a circle on the shore and come
back into the same shore again and we both
walk into the centre and you start pulling
in on the footrope until it gradually gets
smaller and smaller and smaller until if there's
anything in the net it's there. What you think
then Taylor? Rubbish. Ho ho ho thanks. Looks
like a lovely mullet. No it's a flatfish.
Ah it's a flatfish. Back for another day.
Got to pull all this back in again now. They
can never understand in the village of Braunton
why a farmer never makes any money and the
salmon fishermen never catch any salmon. Years
ago I caught 300. But that's many many tides
ago that was. And in those days my uncle and
I fished in a boat he never had enough money
to buy a pair of chest waders so he always
fished in his mother's skirt. He wore his
skirt and bare feet when it was frosty. Cos
fishing used to start the first of April then,
April then you see. Only eight weeks now.
Or just June and July. They have taken away
the best months from us you see. There were
36 netsmen catching salmon on this river but
now there's only three licences left and we're
the last three remaining. That's myself, and
my son and the other one was a Mr Cox from
Appledore. If all three of us went on a bus
trip and we were killed there'd be no more
netting in the Taw and Torridge ever again.
But last year they made an amendment that
meant there will always be one net on this
river when we all die. I'd refuse the money
just to have this way of life. See the mullet
everywhere. I know. Just imagine that was
fish. We won't be having salmon for supper
tonight. There's something here. Here's a
salmon. Keep him coming. Here he is. Aw, lovely
salmon. There's a lovely salmon look at that.
Hold on to him dear. Or he be gone. Ah, you
got a smile out of me. Nice heavy fish. When
I leave this world I'm gonna be placed to
rest at Heanton church right in the sun with
a good view of the estuary. Well then I can
watch who's catching the fish. I can talk
to the salmon and tell them to go round the
net if it's opposition. Come on Stephen. Alright
dear, I'm coming. We didn't know he was there
til we got in, you were asleep. Far too good
for the working class. He he he he.